Update MASWE-0076 with Improved Content (#3282)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: weaknesses/MASVS-CODE/MASWE-0076.md

  nist-ssdf: [PS.3.2]
status: new
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/risks/insecure-library
- https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf
- https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report.pdf
- https://developer.android.com/guide/practices/sdk-best-practices
- https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-best-practices#services-dependencies-updated
- https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-best-practices#update-dependencies
- https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/14514531
- https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/13326895
- https://developer.apple.com/support/third-party-SDK-requirements/
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3klmiHX0uVQ
- https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2023/10060/
---

## Overview

Mobile apps often depend on third-party libraries, software development kits (SDKs), or frameworks, either open-source components maintained by the community or closed-source products provided by commercial vendors, to implement functionality, streamline development, or integrate platform services.

> When these dependencies contain vulnerabilities, they can be more easily exploited than first-party code because these vulnerabilities (and some exploits) are often documented in public databases, such as the CVE list, or accessible through security advisories from maintainers or other Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When these dependencies contain vulnerabilities, they can be more easily exploited than vulnerabilities in first-party code because these vulnerabilities (and some exploits) are often documented in public databases, such as the CVE list, or accessible through security advisories.
```
Since it's already such a long sentence and doesn't really add something?

> These dependencies are compiled into the mobile app binary, so any vulnerabilities they contain become part of the app's attack surface. **The developer is responsible** for ensuring these dependencies are secure and up to date because they are part of the app's codebase. Google and Apple emphasize this in their security best practices, which recommend that developers regularly update their dependencies to mitigate known vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies are compiled into the mobile app, so any vulnerabilities they contain become part of the app's attack surface. **The developer is responsible** for ensuring all dependencies are secure and up to date because they are part of the app's codebase. Google and Apple emphasize this in their security best practices, which recommend that developers regularly update their dependencies to mitigate known vulnerabilities.
```
The 'mobile app binary' for me is the main app binary, while dependencies are often external libs.

Author: You're right and I tried to remove even more redundancy. What about ...?

```md
**The developer is responsible** for ensuring all dependencies are secure and up to date because they are part of the app's codebase and therefore extend the app's attack surface. Google and Apple emphasize this in their security best practices:
```

!!! quote "Google's [Using SDKs safely and securely](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/13326895)"

    "App developers are required to treat any data collection from within their app by an SDK as if they collected it directly."

!!! quote "Apple's [Third-party SDK requirements](https://developer.apple.com/support/third-party-SDK-requirements/)"

    "When you use a third-party SDK with your app, you are responsible for all the code the SDK includes in your app, and need to be aware of its data collection and use practices.

For more information on privacy and data collection declarations, see @MASWE-0112.

## Impact

Using dependencies with known vulnerabilities in mobile apps can result in various security risks, including but not limited to:

- **Sensitive Data Exposure**: Vulnerable dependencies may be exploited to bypass access controls or cryptographic protections, which could lead to the exposure of sensitive user data, including credentials, session tokens, and personally identifiable information (PII). This can result in data breaches, which can have legal, financial and reputational consequences.

> - **Execution of Unauthorized Code or Privilege Escalation**: Exploitable flaws in embedded dependencies can allow attackers to execute arbitrary code within the app's context (e.g., through code injection or remote code execution (RCE)), escalate privileges, or manipulate app behavior. The overall impact can range from full compromise of user accounts, abuse of backend services or persistent access to protected resources. The consequences for the business can be severe, including financial loss, service disruption, and damage to customer trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Execution of Unauthorized Code or Privilege Escalation**: Exploitable vulnerabilities in embedded dependencies can allow attackers to execute arbitrary code within the app's context (e.g., through code injection), escalate privileges, or manipulate app behavior. The overall impact can range from full compromise of user accounts, abuse of backend services or persistent access to protected resources. The business impact can be severe, including financial loss, service disruption, and damage to customer trust.
```
The 'remote' part of RCE is a bit ambiguous since the injection could come from the app itself / another app. Feels weird to have RCE for that.

- **Regulatory and Policy Non-Compliance**: Including dependencies with publicly known CVEs may violate regulatory requirements (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA, PCI-DSS) or platform security policies (e.g., Google Play or App Store guidelines). Failure to update or remediate such vulnerabilities can result in app rejection, fines, or mandatory disclosures.

## Modes of Introduction

- **Direct Dependencies**: Vulnerable dependencies can be introduced into the app either manually (by copying and linking source or binary files) or more commonly via package managers and build tools (e.g., Gradle, CocoaPods, Swift Package Manager). This includes both first- and third-party SDKs, and may involve both statically and dynamically linked libraries.

> - **Transitive Dependencies**: Dependencies can be pulled in indirectly through other libraries or SDKs that the app uses. This means that an app may still be affected by a vulnerable library if one of its dependencies includes it, even if the app does not directly include the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transitive Dependencies**: Dependencies can be pulled in indirectly through other libraries or SDKs that the app uses. This means that an app may still be affected by a vulnerable library if one of its dependencies includes it, even if the app does not directly include the library itself.
```

> - **Dynamically Loaded Dependencies**: Some libraries may be dynamically loaded at runtime, which can make it difficult to track and manage dependencies. This can lead to situations where a vulnerable version of a library is used without the developer's knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dynamically Loaded Dependencies**: Some libraries may be dynamically loaded at runtime, which can make it difficult to track and manage dependencies. This can lead to situations where a vulnerable version of a library is used without the developer's knowledge.
```
This goes against Google Developer policy (dynamically loading external code), unless maybe for JS libraries. We could keep it, but it's a bit unlikely.

> - **Outdated Platform Security Components**: Mobile apps may depend on platform-provided security components, such as cryptographic libraries or SSL/TLS implementations. If these components are outdated or lack timely updates, they can introduce known vulnerabilities into the application. For instance, on Android, the system's security provider responsible for secure network communications must be explicitly updated by the developer at app startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Outdated Platform Security Components**: Mobile apps may depend on platform-provided security components, such as cryptographic libraries or SSL/TLS implementations. If these components are outdated or lack timely updates, they can introduce known vulnerabilities into the application. For instance, on Android, the system's security provider responsible for secure network communications must be explicitly updated by the developer at app startup.
- **Usage of Third-Party Frameworks**: Applications may be built in a third-party application framework such as Flutter or React Native. The framework itself, as well as any platform-specific bindings may contain vulnerabilities.
```

## Mitigations

> - **Keep Dependencies Up to Date**: Regularly update all third-party libraries and SDKs to their latest stable versions to ensure known vulnerabilities are patched.

Reviewer: I don't really agree here. You should pin your version and you don't have to update unless a security vulnerability was identified. So they should monitor the updates of all used dependencies and update in case it is a security update.
```suggestion
- **Monitor Release Notes of All Used Dependencies**: Monitor the release notes of all used dependencies to identify security-critical updates. In case such an update is available, the dependency should be updated to the latest stable version that fixes the vulnerability. Otherwise, dependencies should be pinned to a specific version to prevent supply-chain attacks.
```

Author: I see your point, what about...?

```suggestion
- **Update Dependencies Responsibly**: Regularly monitor all used third-party dependencies for security-related updates. Apply updates when they fix known vulnerabilities, and pin versions explicitly to prevent unexpected changes or supply-chain attacks.
```

> - **Perform Regular Dependency Vulnerability Scanning**: Continuously monitor and audit dependencies using Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools in the CI/CD pipeline to detect known vulnerabilities (e.g., CVEs) and outdated components.

Reviewer: This one can then maybe be removed, or joined with the previous one.

> - **Use a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)**: Produce and maintain an SBOM to track all components and transitive dependencies, ensuring visibility and accountability for third-party code. See [NIST SSDF (NIST SP 800-218) PS.3.2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-218.pdf), [NTIA The Minimum Elements For a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report.pdf), [CISA SBOM Types document](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf) for more information on SBOMs and their importance in managing software dependencies.

Reviewer: Put this one first?

- **Remove Unused or Obsolete Dependencies**: Periodically review and eliminate unused, legacy, or unnecessary libraries to reduce the app's attack surface and dependency footprint.
- **Use Trusted Sources**: Only include libraries and SDKs from reputable sources, such as official repositories or well-maintained open-source projects, to minimize the risk of introducing malicious or vulnerable code.

> - **Implement Dependency Pinning**: Use dependency pinning to lock specific versions of libraries, ensuring that the app does not inadvertently use a vulnerable version due to automatic updates or transitive dependencies.

Reviewer: Delete this one, or move it right after the update one and rephrase?
